API Keys - Determinist API Keys + Security changes (#148)
meilisearch/specifications: text/0085-api-keys.md

#### 3.2.1 Summary Key Points

- API keys management is restricted to the master key holder.
- API keys must be provided via the `Authorization` header using the bearer method to authorize a request.
- The value of the `key` field of an API Key is generated from its `uid` and the master key.
- When a master key is set at Meilisearch first-launch, it generate two pre-configured default `API Key` resources. A `Default Search API Key` authorizing the search action on all indexes and a `Default Admin API Key` authorizing all actions on all indexes (except managing `/keys` resource).
- If the master-key changes, all `key` field are re-generated.
- Default API keys can be modified/deleted from the `/keys` endpoints but are not re-created if Meilisearch has already created them.
- The master key can only be used to manage API keys. Using the master-key for any other request other than on `/keys` returns an authorization error.
- API keys can have restrictions on which methods can be accessed via an `actions` list; they also `expiresAt` a specific date time and are restricted to a specific set of `indexes`.
- `name` and `description` fields are the only editable fields of an API key.

> - API key resources are propagated to snapshots and dumps.

Author: "`name` and `description` fields are the only editable fields of an API key." was already here!

> The master key does not appear on the `/keys` endpoints and can't be used to authorize requests other than on the `/keys` endpoint.

> The only route not secured in the presence of a master key is the `/health` route.

#### 3.2.3. Default API Keys

The first time a Meilisearch is launched with a `master key`, Meilisearch will generate two API keys described below.

If the user changes the value of the master key later, these two default keys are not created again but re-generated with a different `key` field. However, these two API keys can be updated/deleted using the `/keys` endpoints.

If these API keys are deleted, the engine should not create them again when Meilisearch is launched again with a master key.

##### 3.2.3.1. Default Search API Key

The `Default Search API key` gives access to the search endpoints on all indexes.

Here is how the `Default Search API Key` is represented after its generation.

```jsonc
{
    "uid": "01b4bc42-eb33-4041-b481-254d00cce834", //auto-generated value
    "key": "0a6e572506c52ab0bd6195921575d23092b7f0c284ab4ac86d12346c33057f99", //auto-generated value
    "name": "Default Search API Key",

>     "description": "(Use it to search from the frontend)",

Author: Yes! Thanks @brunoocasali !

### 4.4. Propagating `API Key` to snapshots.

The generated API keys must also transit within a snapshot to facilitate the recovery of a MeiliSearch instance.

> 🚨 As a reminder, snapshots must be stored in secure areas not accessible to the public or unaccredited persons. In general, you should avoid moving them off the host machine or do so via a secure channel as a security measure.

If the snapshot ever leak, the `API keys` cannot be spoofed from the snapshot inspection because it needs the master key to have the full value of a valid `API key`. Only the `uid` value is propagated in the snapshots.

### 4.5. API Keys storage size limit

The maximum size of the API key storage layer is `100GB`.

## 5. Future Possibilities

- Regenerate a specific `API Key`.
- Have an "archive" state where manually deleted API Keys can be restored for a certain amount of time.
- Add rate-limiting per API Key.
- A restriction on the maximum offset/limit.
- Add search parameters restrictions for an API Key.

> - Add rfc2822 format expression for `expiredAt` field. e.g. `Wed, 18 Feb 2022 23:16:09 GMT`

Author: This is just to be able to support more formats and make it easier to handle. It shouldn't be that specific; just say, "Support more formats."

- 🔴 Accessing this route without the master key or an API key missing the `keys.delete` permission returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.
- 🔴 Attempting to access an API key that does not exist returns a [`api_key_not_found`](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#api_key_not_found) error.

##### 3.2.4.7. Using an API key on client-code

###### 3.2.4.7.1 Authorization Bearer Header

When the Meilisearch API is secured by the presence of a master key, the `Authorization` header must be used with a bearer to authorize requests. The specified value must be the value of the `key` field of an API key.

```
    "Authorization: Bearer `:key`"
    "Content-Type: application/json"
```

- 🔴 Accessing a route with an `API Key` that has expired, been deleted or don't have sufficient permissions returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.

## 4. Technical Aspects

### 4.1. API Key generation

An `uid` representing by a uuid v4 is generated if not specified at creation by the user.

> The final key is then an SHA-256 hash made of the `uid` and the master key concatenation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final key is then an HMAC with the master key, pre-hashed by an SHA-256 algorithm, as the secret and the `uid` as the data. HMAC uses an SHA-256 algorithm internally.
```

> `SHA-256(:uid, :master-key)` gives the final `key` field to use when authorizing requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HMAC(secret: SHA-256(:master-key), data: :uid)` gives the final `key` field to use when authorizing requests.
```
